GOOD
EVENING AND WELCOME TO THE
AUGUST 18, 20 25 MEETING OF THE
HARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU ARE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
TO THE STATES
OF AMERICA AND TO THE REPUBLIC
FOR WHICH IT STANDS ONE NATION
UNDER INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY
AND JUSTICE FOR
WILL THE CLERK
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE OF COUNCIL
FOR BRITISH HERE COSTAR
HARRISON ABSENT COSMONAUT'S
HERE MALIK YOUR HUSBAND DENHA
HERE THAT'S MARKAZI EDWIN
ABSENT MAYOR TAYLOR EPSO
CUSTOMER IRE CUSTOMER HERE
COMES BRIGG HERE CUSTOMER
CORNELL WE HAVE A QUORUM THANK
YOU.
CAN PLEASE GET A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA MOVED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER IGHER SECONDED
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA AND
CAN I PLEASE GET A MOTION TO
ADD THE RESOLUTION FOR
COMMUNITY EVENTS FUNDIS MONTHS
FROM THE FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
TWENTY SIX BUDGET AS DC TO
REPRESENT OUR COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON.
ANY DISCUSSION ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF ADDING TO THE AGENDA
ANY OPPOSE IT IS ADDED ANY
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
AGENDA ALL IN FAVOR OPPOSED THE
AGENDA IS APPROVED.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR THIS EVENING?
NO MAYOR.
THANK YOU.
WE DON'T HAVE ANY INTRODUCTIONS
THIS EVENING SO WE NOW COME TO
PUBLIC COMMENT.
PUBLIC COMMENT IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
PUBLIC COMMENT ONE MUST HAVE
SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BY
CONTACTING OUR CITY CLERK
SPEAKERS HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
SPEAK AND ONLY ONE PERSON IS
ALLOWED TO SPEAK AT A TIME FOR
THOSE JOINING US REMOTELY, THE
CITY CLERK WILL NOTIFY YOU WHEN
YOU HAVE THIRTY SECONDS
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED OUR FIRST SPEAKER
THIS EVENING IS JEREMY HAYLIE
.
>> GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
CHAIRMAN LIPSY TOWNSHIP OH I
DON'T KNOW IF YOU HEARD BUT
THERE'S WERE SIX MORE HOUSES OR
WELLS IN OUR TOWNSHIP THAT
TESTED POSITIVE FOR THE ONE FOR
DIOXANE.
SO IT'S STILL MOVING AND THAT'S
WHAT I WANT TO KIND OF TALK TO
ABOUT WATERS.
YOU GUYS ARE THINKING ABOUT
INCREASE DENSITY.
I HAVEN'T HEARD ANYBODY REALLY
TALK ABOUT THE WATER ISSUE AND
WHERE IS THIS EXTRA WATER GOING
TO COME FROM OR IS IT GOING TO
GO BECAUSE THE INCREASE THE
OF THE CITY NEED TO INCREASE
THE RESOURCES TO THAT CITY AND
WATER IS ONE OF THEM AND I
DON'T I DON'T KNOW YOU GUYS
KNOW HOW FAR THE CITY
WATER AND
OUR WATER SYSTEM GOES TO BUT I
KNOW SOMEBODY WHO IS OUT THE
OF FARMS AND THEY GET A BILL
FROM THE NRC WATER DEPARTMENT
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
IT GOES WAY OUT THERE SO IT
JUST DOESN'T SERVE THE PEOPLE
OF CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND I
DON'T KNOW WHAT'S BEEN TALKED
ABOUT FOR THE GREAT LAKES WATER
AUTHORITY TO GET WATER FROM
THEM BECAUSE AND OUR TOWNSHIPS
GOT THE LITTLE MINING OPERATION
GOING THAT USES EXCESSIVE WATER
THERE WELLS A LOT OF THE WELLS
THAT ARE BEING SHOT BECAUSE
OF IT.
NORTHFIELD TOWNSHIP ALREADY HAS
A BUNCH OF BIG PLACES ON IN ON
THE SOUTH END OF IT THIS YEAR
AND I THINK TWENTY FOUR INCH
SIZE WELLS USING SO MUCH WATER
A DAY TOO AND PEOPLE THEY'RE
ALREADY COMPLAINING ABOUT
WATER.
SO I JUST WONDERED IF THERE'S
ANY TALK AMONG ALL OF YOU OR
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO
WHAT'S THE PLAN TO INCREASE THE
DENSITY ALSO GOOD ACCESS TO THE
WATER THAT IS NEEDED TO
POPULATE SUCH A DENSITY BECAUSE
WITHOUT THE WATER DENSITY WILL
INCREASE.
YOU CAN LOOK THROUGHOUT
CIVILIZATIONS WHEN PEOPLE LOST
ACCESS TO RESOURCES THE SIZE
OF CITIES DIMINISHED AND SOME
OF THEM VIRTUALLY WENT AWAY.
SO I JUST LIKE TO KNOW WHAT THE
CITY'S PLANS ARE GOING FORTH
WITH INCREASE IN SIZE DENSITY
WITH ACCESS TO WATER BECAUSE
THAT'S A GOOD ONE TO KNOW
BECAUSE I ALSO KNOW THAT PEOPLE
WHO LIVE ON THE OTHER SIDE
OF SKYLINE HIGH SCHOOL PRETTY
MUCH ONE PERSON JUST STOPPED
TESTING THEIR WELL AND SAID IF
I PASS UP IT POPS UP AT THIS
POINT I'M NOT GOING TO BE
TESTED ALL THE TIME.
SOME OTHER PEOPLE IN THAT AREA
ARE THEY NEED ACCESS TO SOME
BETTER WATER AS LONG AS PEOPLE
ARE OUT OF THE GROUND TO GET
THAT WATER, THAT PLUME IS
CONTINUOUSLY MOVING UNDERGROUND
TO GET TO THOSE SITES WHERE
IT'S BEING PULLED OUT CAUSING
NEGATIVE PRESSURE AND THE WATER
WANTS TO GO WHERE IT'S GOING TO
GO.
>> THANK YOU.
NEXT WE HAVE CHUCK GOUDEY.
GOOD EVENING AND THANK YOU FOR
LETTING ME SPEAK THIS EVENING I
COME HERE TONIGHT TO SPEAK
AGAINST THE EXCESS OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND TO SPEAK
FOR THE TREES.
I'M A CANDIDATE FOR THE CITY
COUNCIL IN THE THIRD WARD NEXT
YEAR.
TWENTY OR SIX ONE OF MY MAIN
REASONS FOR BEING HERE TONIGHT
IS TO FIND OTHER PEOPLE WHO
WILL BE CANDIDATES FOR CITY
COUNCIL NEXT YEAR.
>> THIS PRESENT CREW IN FRONT
OF US CANNOT BE THE ONES WHO
INTERPRET THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN THAT THEY'VE PUT TOGETHER
THAT WOULD BE A DISASTER FOR
ANN ARBOR.
>> I WILL AGREE WITH AGREE WITH
ALL THE DENSITY AND FLEXIBILITY
FOR HOUSING IN THIS NEW
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
>> BUT WE CANNOT ALLOW OUR
PRECIOUS REMAINING LAND TO BE
DESTROYED BY STILL MORE
BUILDINGS AND PAVEMENT.
>> WE ACCEPT THE PLAN BUT YOU
CAN'T TAKE MORE LAND.
MUCH OF THE CHARACTER AND
BEAUTY OF INNER HARBOR IS
CREATED BY THE TREES, THE
GARDENS AND THE GREEN SPACES.
>> DID YOU KNOW THAT YOU'RE A
RACIST NOW IN ANN ARBOR IF YOU
TALK ABOUT THE BEAUTIFUL
CHARACTER OF OUR CITY AND
EINSTEIN MENTIONED THAT THE
ONLY THING TRULY INFINITE WAS
HUMAN STUPIDITY PEOPLE WILL
BEGIN TO SEE THAT THE COST
OF ALL THIS WILL FALL RIGHT ON
THEIR TAX BILL THIS PLAN TALKS
ABOUT BALANCE BUT THIS PLAN IS
WHAT TIPS THE BALANCE AGAINST
THREE YEARS.
>> WHAT IF YOU REALLY LOVE
TREES AND YOUR NEIGHBOR AND YOU
SEE A SENTENCE LIKE QUOTE
PRIORITIZING HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT MAY REQUIRE AN
EASING OF CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS
AND CONSTRAINTS OR QUOTE WE
WILL REWRITE ZONING CODE TO
REMOVE BARRIERS TO HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT.
>> THERE'S NO BALANCE THERE.
JUST LISTEN TO IT.
THE KEY IS THAT THERE MUST BE
NO REDUCTION IN BUILDING
SETBACKS IN A NEW RESIDENTIAL
AREA WHICH WOULD STRIP OUT THE
LAND FOR TREES TO GIVE IT TO
THE DEVELOPERS.
>> YOU CAN BOOST HOUSING BUT
NOT STRIP OUT THE TREES AND
GREEN SPACE IF ONE CITY COUNCIL
ONE PERIOD OF THE CITY COUNCIL
GETS THE HUBRIS AND POWER TO
RIP OUT THE TREES AND GREEN
SPACE LATER CITY COUNCILS WILL
NOT BE ABLE TO GET IT BACK,
WROTE CHUCK RHEEM NEXT YEAR
PRESERVE SAVE YOUR CITY WE
ACCEPT THE PLAN BUT TAKE NO
MORE LAND FROM TREES AND GREEN
SPACE.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP WE HAVE RAMONE HARRIS
.
>> GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JAKE FROM STATE
FARM.
I'M JOKING BUT MY NAME IS
RAMONE.
HERE'S TO MAYOR TAYLOR.
HIS ABSENCE AND OUR CITY
COUNCIL.
I SERVE AS THE ASSOCIATE STATE
DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY OUTREACH
AND ENGAGEMENT WITH AARP.
>> I OVERSEE THE ENTIRE OUR
ENTIRE EXPANSION.
I WANT TO EXTEND FIRST MY
GRATITUDE TO MAYOR TAYLOR IN
HIS ABSENCE AS WELL AS COUNCIL
MEMBERS JOHN MALIK AND TRAVIS
FOR DENHA AND YOU SHOULD GOZI
EDWYN WITH WHOM I'VE ALREADY
HAD THE PRIVILEGE OF MEETING
AND THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND
YOUR LEADERSHIP IN OUR
CONVERSATIONS FOR THOSE I
HAVEN'T YET MET WITH AND HAD
THE CHANCE TO MEET, I LOOK
FORWARD TO CONNECTING WITH YOU
IN THE VERY NEAR FUTURE.
>> IN ADDITION TO MY WORK HERE
IN ANN ARBOR, I ALSO LEAD AARP
MICHIGAN'S AGE FRIENDLY EFFORTS
ACROSS THE STATE HELPING
COMMUNITIES DESIGN ENVIRONMENTS
THAT SUPPORT RESIDENTS OF ALL
AGES AND ALSO OVERSEE AARP
MICHIGAN'S CHALLENGE GRANT
PROGRAM WHICH INVESTS DIRECTLY
IN INNOVATIVE LOCAL PROJECTS TO
MAKE COMMUNITIES MORE LIVABLE.
BOTH OF THESE INITIATIVES
REPRESENT RESOURCES AND
OPPORTUNITY THAT CAN DIRECTLY
BENEFIT ANN ARBOR DAY, AARP'S
MISSION IS TO EMPOWER PEOPLE TO
CHOOSE HOW THEY HOW THEY LIVE
AS THEY AGE HERE IN ANN ARBOR
THAT MEANS BEING A COLLABORATOR
SUPPORTING THE IMPORTANT WORK
YOU'RE ALREADY DOING AND
LEADING WHETHER SAFER, MORE
WALKABLE STREETS ADVANCING
HOUSING AFFORDABILITY OR
EXPANDING ACCESSIBILITY FOR
OLDER RESIDENTS AND THEIR
FAMILIES, AARP STANDS READY TO
BRING RESEARCH VOLUNTEERS AND
RESOURCES THAT ALIGN WITH YOUR
PRIORITIES IN CLOSING, THANK
YOU AGAIN FOR THE OPPORTUNITY
TO INTRODUCE MYSELF FORMALLY
AND FOR THE WORK YOU ARE
ALREADY DOING DAY TO DAY TO
STRENGTHEN THIS COMMUNITY.
I LOOK FORWARD TO CONTINUING TO
BUILD PARTNERSHIPS WITH EACH
OF YOU TO SERVE THE NRA REMAINS
ONE OF THE VERY BEST PLACES TO
LIVE, WORK AND AGE.
MY DOOR IS ALWAYS OPEN TO
COLLABORATE.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
NEXT UP WE HAVE KATIE GARVIE.
GOOD EVENING.
AND ARBOR'S OFTEN THOUGHT
OF FIRST AS A COLLEGE TOWN BUT
IT IS SO MUCH MORE THAN THAT.
I'M KATIE GARVIE AND I AND MY
FAMILY MOVED TO ANN ARBOR
EIGHTEEN YEARS AGO.
OUR FAMILY CHOSE TO MOVE HERE
BECAUSE OF ALL THE AREA HAD TO
OFFER OUR NEEDS AND WANTS
CHANGING.
>> WE REMAIN HERE BECAUSE WE
CONTINUE TO TAKE ADVANTAGE
OF ALL THE BENEFITS AND
RESOURCES.
IN TWENTY TWENTY FOUR ANN ARBOR
WAS DESIGNATED AS ONE OF THE
HAPPIEST PLACES TO RETIRE AS AN
AARP VOLUNTEER MYSELF AND AN
OLDER COMMUNITY MEMBER AND A
GERIATRIC OCCUPATIONAL
THERAPIST WHO SERVES OLDER
ADULTS IN THE COMMUNITY HERE I
RECOGNIZE ASPECTS THAT NEED
ATTENTION AND ATTENDING TO
THESE GAPS IS GOOD FOR
EVERYONE.
MOST PEOPLE INCLUDING MYSELF
WANT TO AGE IN PLACE.
OUR PREFERENCE IS TO CONTINUE
WITH INTERESTING MEANINGFUL
DAILY ROUTINES WITH LOVED ONES
,NEIGHBORS AND FRIENDS.
WE WANT TO HAVE CHOICES TO PLAY
TO STAY PHYSICALLY ACTIVE,
INTELLECTUALLY ENGAGED AND
SOCIALLY CONNECTED IS AUTHOR
ROBIN.
WHILE KEMMERER STATED AGING IS
A PROCESS OF PROGRESSIVE
ENRICHMENT RATHER THAN
PROGRESSIVE DECAY AND DO CITY
DECISION MAKERS CONCUR?
ANN ARBOR HAS EDUCATIONAL
HEALTH CARE AND BUSINESS
ENTERPRISES WHICH GARNER
WORLDWIDE ACCLAIM.
AARP AGE FRIENDLY INITIATIVE IS
AN AFFILIATE OF THE WORLD
HEALTH ORGANIZATION'S AGE
FRIENDLY NETWORK.
THE CITY NEEDS TO CREATE A
LIVING ENVIRONMENT THAT BUILDS
AND MAINTAINS INTRINSIC
CAPACITY ACROSS THE LIFE COURSE
AND SUPPORTS OPTIMAL FUNCTIONAL
ABILITY FOR ALL DEMOGRAPHIC AND
ECONOMIC SHIFTS REQUIRE US TO
LOOK AT HOW TO CONTINUE TO
THRIVE.
SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES OFFER
ACCESS TO ABUNDANT NATURE,
QUALITY HEALTH CARE OPTIONS,
AFFORDABLE AND DIVERSE HOUSING
OPTIONS, VIABLE COMMUNITY
MOBILITY, SAFETY AND
INTERGENERATIONAL CONNECTIONS.
>> THE AGE FRIENDLY STRUCTURE
OFFERS A SYSTEMATIC WAY TO
ACCESS NEEDS BASED ON CURRENT
RESIDENTS LIVED EXPERIENCES,
COLLABORATIVE PROBLEM SOLVING
AND PRIORITIZING AND ACCESS TO
FUNDING TO HELP MAKE HOPE'S
REALITIES, A NUMBER OF OTHER
MICHIGAN COMMUNITIES HAVE
JOINED IN AND SUCCESSFULLY
ENHANCED LIVABILITY IN THEIR
INDIVIDUAL COMMUNITIES.
ANN ARBOR IS MISSING AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR GROWTH IF WE
DON'T ALSO.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> NEXT UP IS ELIZABETH KURTS
ELIZABETH KURTS
.
I GET MY TEN HERE SO I'M SORRY.
I APOLOGIZE.
MY NAME IS ELIZABETH.
I ACTUALLY GO BY MIT.
I HAVE ASSOCIATED WITH GROUND
COVER NEWS.
I'VE WRITTEN FOR
A PUBLICATION
FOR OVER A DECADE NOW I'M
PUBLISHING MY OWN MAGAZINE JUST
CALLED THE FRENCH.
>> THE REASON I AM HERE TONIGHT
IS TO BRING ATTENTION TO THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE LIVING IN MY
SITUATION NAVIGATING LIFE
OUTSIDE OF MAINSTREAM REFER TO
IT AS HOMELESSNESS.
I'M HOUSED WHATEVER YOU WANT TO
CALL.
ONE OF THE PROBLEMS THAT I HAVE
IS THAT ANN ARBOR IN PARTICULAR
HAS APPROACHED THIS PROBLEM AND
IT IS A PROBLEM THE EGREGIOUS
PROBLEM THE GOVERNMENT DEFINES
IT AS HOUSING UNSUITABLE FOR
HUMAN HABITATION WHEN PEOPLE
LIVE ON THE STREETS, IN THE
WOODS, IN CARS MAY NOT BE
URGENT TO YOU BUT FOR THOSE
OF US WHO ARE EXPERIENCING IT,
IT IS URGENT AND I'M THINKING
IT WOULD BEHOOVE ANN ARBOR OR
ANY OTHER CITY GOVERNMENT TO
LOOK AT MORE THAN COOKIE CUTTER
APPROACHES TO THIS BECAUSE
THERE'S A LOT OF BUREAUCRACY
INVOLVED.
SO THAT'S WHY I'M HERE TODAY.
I'M OFTEN OUTSIDE SELLING THE
STREET PAPER.
>> I WALK UP AND DOWN THE
STREET AND I'VE NOTICED THAT
THERE IS THERE ARE EYESORES AND
I'M NOT TALKING ABOUT PEOPLE
LIVING ON THE STREETS WHO MANY
HAVE NO CONTROL, MOST HAVE NO
CONTROL OVER CIRCUMSTANCES.
BUT I'M TALKING ABOUT THE
OVERGROWTH OF WEEDS.
>> SOMEBODY TALKED ABOUT EVERY
CITY.
WE HAVE A LOT OF TREES BUT WE
ALSO HAVE A LOT OF OVERGROWTH
AND LET'S SEE WHO IS DISTRICT
FIVE OR WARD FIVE NEAR THE
LIBRARY.
I TOOK SOME PICTURES JUST TO
KIND OF GIVE YOU AN IDEA IF YOU
WANT TO PASS THEM TO OTHER
PEOPLE AS WELL IF YOU WANT TO
BRING THOSE UP TO THE CLERK,
SHE CAN SHE CAN DISTRIBUTE
THEM.
>> THEY HAVE A LITTLE ONE AND
EVERYBODY THERE ARE SERIOUS
OVERGROWTH, UNSIGHTLY OVERGROWN
AND THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY TO
CONNECT WITH PEOPLE WHO ARE
LIVING ON THE STREETS TO GIVE
THEM AN OPPORTUNITY TO WORK, BE
PAID FOR THE WORK AND GET
AROUND SO THAT THEY CAN GET
BACK INTO SOCIETY.
LOBELL YOUR WORK IS CRUCIAL.
PEOPLE OFTEN SAY GET A JOB.
IT IS VIRTUALLY IMPOSSIBLE TO
GET A JOB WHEN YOU'RE LIVING IN
THIS SITUATION.
FIRST OF ALL, YOU ARE UNABLE TO
DO YOU DON'T HAVE ACCESS TO
LAUNDRY, SHOWERS, FOOD, JUST
THE BASIC THINGS THAT YOU NEED.
SO I LOOKING FOR ADVICE AND
GUIDANCE AND HOW TO PUT
TOGETHER A PROGRAM THAT WOULD
ALLOW PEOPLE ON THE STREETS TO
BEAUTIFY THE CITY.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP IS KATHY GRISWOLD.
GOOD EVENING.
I LOOK A LITTLE PEEK AT IT'S
BECAUSE I'M PHYSICALLY ILL
WHENEVER WE HAVE A PEDESTRIAN
HIT AND A BLOODY BODY IN A
STREET AND LET'S BE HONEST WE
HAVE BLOODY BODIES IN THE
STREET.
IT'S NOT SOME HYPOTHETICAL
RETURN ON INVESTMENT OR TRICKLE
DOWN ECONOMICS.
THESE ARE REAL PEOPLE THAT ARE
BEING DAMAGED AND IN SOME CASES
DAMAGED PERMANENTLY OR KILLED
BECAUSE OF OUR INDIFFERENCE TO
STATE AND FEDERAL ENGINEERING
GUIDELINES AND LAWS.
SO WE TO CRASH YESTERDAY I
THINK EVERYONE PROBABLY KNOWS
THAT I DON'T WANT TO DWELL ON
THEM OTHER THAN TO SAY NEITHER
OF THOSE CROSSWALKS HAD REFUGE
ISLANDS.
REFUGE ISLANDS ARE STANDARD THE
STATE LAW AND OUR PEDESTRIAN
CROSSWALK ORDINANCE REQUIRES A
DRIVER TO STOP FOR A PEDESTRIAN
ON THEIR SIDE OF THE STREET OR
APPROACHING SO CLOSELY AS TO BE
IN DANGER IT DOES NOT REQUIRE
YOUR DRIVERS GOING BOTH WAYS TO
STOP FOR A PEDESTRIAN BUT WE
DON'T REALLY ADVERTISE THAT SO
THAT ADDS TO THE CONFUSION.
ANOTHER THING IN NEVADA THERE
WAS A SIGN ON BUSY STREETS THAT
SAY FOR THE PEDESTRIAN WAIT FOR
VEHICLES TO STOP BEFORE CROSS.
THAT'S WHAT WE NEED TO DO.
I ALSO WANT TO SAY THAT I GREW
UP IN FLINT, MICHIGAN.
I CAREFULLY WATCHED WHAT WAS
HAPPENING WITH THE WATER
CRISIS, THE LEAD IN THE WATER.
DR. MONA COMING FORWARD TO CITY
OFFICIALS, STATE OFFICIALS,
ANYONE THAT WOULD LISTEN OVER
AND OVER AND OVER SAYING WE ARE
POISONING OUR CHILDREN AND HOW
MANY MONTHS DID IT TAKE STATE
OFFICIALS AND CITY OFFICIALS TO
FINALLY ACCEPT THE TRUTH?
SO WHEN I STAND UP HERE YOU CAN
ARGUE WITH ME ABOUT THE DATA
AND YOU CAN ARGUE WITH ME ABOUT
MY TONE OR ANYTHING YOU WANT
BUT REALIZE THAT WE ARE LITTLE
REALLY KILLING PEOPLE BECAUSE
WE ARE NOT WORKING TOGETHER.
WE ARE NOT FOLLOWING FEDERAL
SIGHTLINE GUIDELINES.
WE ARE NOT FOLLOWING STATE LAW.
I HAVE TO CHECK SOMETHING TO
THE MAYOR REGARDING A LARGE
PICKUP TRUCK THAT WAS RIGHT
NEXT TO A CROSSWALK THAT WE
GAVE THEM PERMISSION TO PARK
THERE.
SO WHAT HAPPENED?
THE CITY CAME AND SAID NO, YOU
CAN'T PARK THERE.
THERE IS A STATE LAW ABOUT IT.
THERE'S NO STATE LAW ABOUT
DUMPSTERS ON THE SAME BLOCK
RIGHT NEXT TO THE CROSSWALK.
SO NOW I GUESS WE HAVE TO
MODIFY THE STATE LAW TO SAY NO
OBJECTS WITHIN 20 FEET OF A
CROSSWALK BECAUSE WE DON'T SEEM
TO HAVE COMMON SENSE ANYWAY.
SCHOOL STARTS NEXT WEEK.
IT IS GOING TO BE DEADLY.
PEOPLE ARE TELLING ME IT IS THE
WORST THEY'VE EVER SEEN WITH
THE VEGETATION TO NEW FRIENDS.
RAYMONDO ELIZABETH, THANKS FOR
BRINGING UP THINGS THAT I CARE
ABOUT AND I WILL WORK WITH THEM
AND ANYONE ELSE INTERESTED.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS FROM
COUNCIL THIS EVENING?
COUNCIL MEMBER THANK YOU HERE
FOR A TEMPORARY YOU JUST WANT
TO REMIND EVERYONE AND INVITE
EVERYONE WHO'S HERE.
REMIND EVERYONE WHO'S
LISTENING, INVITE EVERYONE
WHO'S HERE OR LISTENING THAT
NEXT MONDAY AT SIX P.M. CYNTHIA
HARRISON AND I WILL HAVE A
CONSTITUENT COFFEE OUR AT THE
LOWERTOWN BAR AND CAFE THE
SPECIAL TOPIC FOR THE
COFFEE HOUR IS THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN AND
WE WILL BE HAPPY TO WORK WITH
YOU WITH YOUR QUESTIONS AND GET
SOME ANSWERS FOR YOU FROM
PLANNING STAFF WHO WILL BE
ATTENDING THAT MEETING SO THAT
SIX P.M. AT THE LOWER HAND BAR
AND CAFE AT THE END OF THE
MAIDEN LANE BRIDGE IN WARD ONE
THANKS COUNCIL MEMBER GRIMLOCK
ON A SIMILAR NOTE I'D LIKE TO
HIGHLIGHT AND INVITE EVERYONE
TO A JOINT LISTENING SESSION
BETWEEN ME COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON AND STATE
REPRESENTATIVES JASON MORGAN
AND JENNIFER CULLEN TAKING
PLACE THIS SATURDAY AUGUST
TWENTY THIRD FROM 11:00 A.M. TO
TWELVE THIRTY PM AT THE TREVER
LIBRARY.
WE'LL PROVIDE A BRIEF UPDATE ON
ISSUES FACING OR TWO AND THE
NORTHEAST SIDE OF THE CITY AND
ALLOW OUR STATE REPS TO PROVIDE
UPDATES ON THE LATEST GOINGS ON
IN THE STATE HOUSE.
>> THANK YOU.
ANY FURTHER COMMUNICATIONS FROM
COUNCIL?
ALL RIGHT.
FOR MY PART I WOULD LIKE TO
FIRST START BY SHARING OUR
FINAL COUNCIL SUMMER GAME
CODE OF THE GAME SEASON THIS
EVENING IT'S A TO PUBLIC
SERVICE AND SHARE A REMINDER
THAT THE CITY HAS LITERALLY
HUNDREDS OF OPPORTUNITIES FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SERVE
ON BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND
COMMITTEES.
PLEASE VISIT THE CITY CLERK'S
WEBSITE TO FIND OPPORTUNITIES
THAT MAY INTEREST YOU AND
CONSIDER APPLYING TODAY TO
SERVE YOUR COMMUNITY.
ALSO ON BEHALF OF THE MAYOR I
WOULD LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION OF THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENTS PRESENTED TO CITY
COUNCIL AT THE AUGUST 7TH
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE MEETING TO
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSIONER SARAH NISBET FOR A
TERM ENDING MAY THIRTY FIRST
TWENTY TWENTY SEVEN AND JENNA
CARTER FOR A TERM ENDING MAY
THIRTY FIRST TWENTY TWENTY
EIGHT.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION PLEASE.
COUNCIL MEMBER SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON ANY
DISCUSSION ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
THEY ARE APPROVED
WE NOW HAVE
BEFORE US THE CONSENT AGENDA DO
HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
CONSENT AND A COUNCIL MEMBER
EITHER SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION OF THE
AGENDA AND I WOULD ENTERTAIN A
MOTION TO POSTPONE ITEM C A
FIVE TO OUR SEPTEMBER 2ND
MEETING MOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
ACKMANN.
ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
POSTPONEMENT?
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR, ANY OPPOSE
IT IS POSTPONED ANY FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA AS AMENDED.
YET WITH THE EXCEPTION OF TWO
WHICH WAS REMOVED BEFORE THE
MEETING ALL IN FAVOR OF THE
CONSENT AGENDA ANY OPPOSE THE
CONSENT AGENDA IS APPROVED.
>> WE NOW HAVE BEFORE US A
PUBLIC HEARING PUBLIC HEARINGS
ARE OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO CITY
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
A SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING TO SPEAK
AT A PUBLIC HEARING YOU NEED
NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE
BUT YOUR COMMENTS MUST RELATE
TO THE TOPIC OF THE HEARING.
SPEAKERS HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION TO THE TIME CLOCK.
OUR CLERK WILL ALERT SPEAKERS
WHEN THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING
AND WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND SEE THE FLOOR ARE PUBLIC
HEARING TODAY IS A PUBLIC
HEARING NO ONE A RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE OF FEES FOR FIRE
DEPARTMENT
PLANNING REVIEW.
IS THERE ANYONE IN THE HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK OF THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
DO WE HAVE ANYONE ON LINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK OF THIS
PUBLIC HEARING AIRPORT?
I DON'T SEE ANY CALLERS WITH
THEIR HANDS UP THIS HEARING
SEEING NO ONE THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED.
WE NOW HAVE BEFORE US THE
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
OF AUGUST 7TH.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE MOVED BY
COUNCIL WATSON SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
ANY DISCUSSION ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR.
MOST OF THE MINUTES ARE
APPROVED DC ONE A RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE THE AMENDED TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE COUNCIL COMMITTEE
APPOINTMENTS MOVED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGG SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER IHR DISCUSSION.
I WILL NOTE THAT THIS IS TO
APPOINT COUNCIL MEMBERS MALIK
AND KORNEL TO THE
SUSTAINABILITY COMMISSION SEE
NO DISCUSSION ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR POST IT IS APPROVED DC TO
A RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
COMMUNITY EVENTS FUND
DISBURSEMENTS FOR FROM THE
FISCAL YEAR TWENTY TWENTY SIX
BUDGET MOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
MALIK DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH.
I'LL JUST SAY A FEW WORDS
BECAUSE NOTHING IS MORE FUN
THAN SPENDING THE COMMUNITY
EVENT BUDGET SO OUR BUDGET HAS
BEEN STEADY IN RECENT YEARS AND
THIS YEAR WE HAVE NINETEEN
RECIPIENTS FOR WHOM THE BUDGET
REPRESENTS A CONTINUATION
SUPPORT FROM PREVIOUS YEARS.
WE HAVE THREE NEW RECIPIENTS
LESLEY SCIENCE NATURE CENTER
AND THE HANDS ON MUSEUM.
THEY WILL GET AN AWARD TO
COVER CITY COSTS FOR THE
CRITTER HOUSE EVENT.
IT'S NOT BEING HELD AT MY HOUSE
BUT CERTAIN HEADQUARTERS.
THEN THERE ARE TWO GRANTS TO
THE MAIN STREET ASSOCIATION TO
COVER CITY COSTS FOR THE HETTA
OUR ENCOUNTER ON SEPTEMBER 12TH
AND FOR THE MAIN STREET MUSIC
FESTIVAL WHICH SOUNDS FANTASTIC
ON SEPTEMBER TWENTY SIXTH AND
THESE NEW AWARDS WERE POSSIBLE
BECAUSE WE HAD A COUPLE
OF EVENTS THAT DIDN'T NEED TO
APPLY AND SO DIDN'T APPLY THIS
YEAR THE SUMMER STREETS AND
GAMEDAY STREET CLOSURES HAVE
BEEN TAKEN OVER THE FINANCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY BEEN TAKEN OVER
BY THE DEA.
SO THAT GAVE US A LITTLE BIT
OF EXTRA MONEY AND AGAIN WE'RE
ALWAYS GRATEFUL FOR THE THINGS
THAT THE DEA TAKES OFF OUR
PLATE SO WE HAVE MORE PIECES
OF PIE TO GO AROUND.
SO THAT'S THAT AND I HOPE
YOU'RE ALL HAPPY IF TRUE.
>> THANK YOU.
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION, ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR POST IT IS
APPROVED D.
S ONE A RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
FEES FOR THE FIRE DEPARTMENT
FOR FIRE DEPARTMENT PLANNING
REVIEW MOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
IA SECONDED COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG'S DISCUSSION ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR POST IT IS APPROVED CITY
ATTORNEY COURT.
WE HAVE THE PLEASURE OF A
CLOSED SESSION THIS EVENING.
WELL THANK YOU MAYOR.
>> WE NOW HAVE BEFORE US THE
CLERKS REPORT OF COMMUNICATIONS
.
CAN I PLEASE GET A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE CLERK'S REPORT
CONSUMER DISH SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER MALIK ANY DISCUSSION ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OPPOSE THE
OF THE REPORT IS APPROVED
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OUR CITY
ATTORNEY TO ME NONE TODAY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
WITH NO PUBLIC COMMENT OVERFLOW
THIS EVENING, DO I HAVE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER IA?
ANY DISCUSSION ALL IN FAVOR WE
ARE APPROVED OR ADJOURNED